the Earth object spelled E.
R.
Is a resource that's built into VB A,
which provides information on errors as they occur.
In this video.
We'll look at how you could use this resource to your advantage.
To add flexibility to your error handling code.
Let's go back into the Section eight model and let's begin by taking a copy of the macro
that we used in the last video.
Now let's rename it So it's now macro 0804 I will just call it object and that switch
across to procedure view.
We have a look in the object browser we'll need to go into the V B a library,
and he will find the object.
And the two properties that will be using are the number,
which provides an excellent mechanism for identifying which type of object has occurred.
And the description,
which provides a sometimes not very user friendly error message,
attempted to tell the user what's gone wrong.
For so far.
Our code caters for two possible errors.
One is that we're attempting to set a document variable to a document that's not currently
available.
We can instigate this error simply by modifying the name.
So this document we know doesn't exist.
And if we do the same here in our second bit of error,
handling will also kick in in order to see what the arrows are.
Let's then display both the error number and the description,
so I'm just gonna put the line a mystery books.
Ah dot number.
Let's put a separator.
I'll put a hyphen and then the description.
Let's also put the same line,
you know,
error handling section,
perhaps just above the existing message box,
which displays are user friendly.
There a message.
So both of those errors should now kick in because of the changes we've made here.
Let's just test that.
So there's our first error number 4160 bat file.
Name is the description,
and here's our second.
This time it's a bit more user friendly.
Erin Number 5174 Sorry we couldn't find your file,
etcetera.
And,
of course,
I Mexico cable get out.
User friendly are a message with the baby critical.
The number property of the object provides an excellent mechanism for allowing your code to
actually do different things,
depending on which error occurs at the moment.
The code kind of assumes that the only thing that could go wrong is the file D and missing
.
What we can now do is to say we only want to display that if it's a 5174 if dot number
equals 5174 So let's modify our code and just make it conditional we'll use a select case
you.
So this is gonna be case 5174 And obviously we could test for as many different cases as we
want to.
And then at the end,
we would say case else and we can put a generic error message.
So let's copy this message.
And in fact,
we can now make this one a bit more specific.
Let's now add in the number and description to our generic error message.
So this would need to go in here So we'll start with a return and perhaps then open
parentheses that I'm just gonna paste in the era number,
the separator on the description and then close parentheses.
And,
of course,
I've left an extra message box in here that was on the clipboard.
So we just want the number on the description So we test now.
Obviously,
it's gonna be a 5174 at this point,
and this user friendly message books should kick it.
But not before the 1st 1 kicked in.
I forgot about that 1st 1 so this obviously needs to come out.
So let's test again.
So we get our sorry.
The required file can't be found because we've now tested for a specific type of error,
a current thanks to adult number.
So let's now try and introduce a different type of error.
We can fix these ones by put in the correct names back in so they won't generators anymore
.
But let's just open up the file.
It's in the Section eight sub folder,
and it's cool student schools.
Let's introduce an era into the actual data.
So if we put zero exams taken,
total school zero.
When this line that calculates the grade is being executed,
we should then get an error.
And thanks to the code that we've got down here because it's not a 5174 we should get these
lines of code being executed,
and they,
of course,
will tell us what error number is in play.
So Let's run and we see scenario number six overflow.
So we can now think of a strategy for handling Erin number six.
So we have a look at the document.
What would probably want to do is to simply skip past Charlie Ross without giving him a
grade and move on to Liam Grant.
So let's just don't do those changes and see if we can adapt our code so that these lines
are only being executed,
Providing that DOT number is not currently equal to six and we can do this by using a
1,000,000,000 flag.
Let's begin by declaring a 1,000,000,000 variable.
We'll call it Bill and Skip.
And then before the line that does,
the calculation will make sure that BLN skip is always said to false.
Yeah.
Next,
we can adapt our select case statement to cater for er dot number equal six.
So here we can say K six and we want to do two things.
First of all,
we want to make sure that BLN skip it's set to true,
and secondly,
we want to resume next.
In other words,
we want to continue code execution on the line following the line that generated the era
and then finally we want to make all of these lines conditional,
so I'll just tap them in a man above.
UM,
we test the value of BLN skip So we only want the following lines to be executed if BLN
skip is still false.
So with each iteration,
Yellen skip starts.
Life is false.
We attempt to execute the problem line.
If there is an era bln,
skip switches to true and there is you next statement takes us onto this line which tests
bln skip and only if BLN skip is still falls.
In other words,
no error was generated.
Do these lines actually get executed?
Now?
Let's test our code so we can see that Charlie Ross has simply been skipped and everyone
else has been given the great and we could have caused Go back and implement the same
technique to avoid having to use one error Resume next so you can see basically that using
the object and especially not number is a great way of making your error handling code much
more flexible.
The object is built into V V A that is automatically populated with information.
Whenever an error occurs,
the er doc number property could be used to verify which kind of error has occurred,
allowing each separate cyber very to be handled differently.
The ER doc description Property could be used to provide a default description of errors,
which your code does not explicitly handle.